.\" t
.\" -*- coding: us-ascii -*-
.if \n(.g .ds T< \\FC
.if \n(.g .ds T> \\F[\n[.fam]]
.de URL
\\$2 \(la\\$1\(ra\\$3
..
.if \n(.g .mso www.tmac
.TH sg_get_host_info 3 2013-06-17 i-scream ""
.SH NAME
sg_get_host_info, sg_get_host_info_r, sg_free_host_info \- get general operating system statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
'nh
.nf
\*(T<#include <statgrab.h>\*(T>
.fi
.sp 1
.PP
.fi
.ad l
\*(T<sg_host_info *\fBsg_get_host_info\fR\*(T> \kx
.if (\nx>(\n(.l/2)) .nr x (\n(.l/5)
'in \n(.iu+\nxu
\*(T<(size_t *\fIentries\fR);\*(T>
'in \n(.iu-\nxu
.ad b
.PP
.fi
.ad l
\*(T<sg_host_info *\fBsg_get_host_info_r\fR\*(T> \kx
.if (\nx>(\n(.l/2)) .nr x (\n(.l/5)
'in \n(.iu+\nxu
\*(T<(size_t *\fIentries\fR);\*(T>
'in \n(.iu-\nxu
.ad b
.PP
.fi
.ad l
\*(T<sg_error \fBsg_free_host_info\fR\*(T> \kx
.if (\nx>(\n(.l/2)) .nr x (\n(.l/5)
'in \n(.iu+\nxu
\*(T<(sg_host_info *\fIdata\fR);\*(T>
'in \n(.iu-\nxu
.ad b
'hy
.SH DESCRIPTION
These calls return details on the operating system and the machine
it's running on.
.PP
\fBAPI Shortcut\fR
.TS
allbox ;
l | l | l.
T{
function
T}	T{
returns
T}	T{
data owner
T}
.T&
l | l | l
l | l | l.
T{
sg_get_host_info
T}	T{
\*(T<sg_host_info\*(T> *
T}	T{
libstatgrab (thread local)
T}
T{
sg_get_host_info_r
T}	T{
\*(T<sg_host_info\*(T> *
T}	T{
caller
T}
.TE
.PP
The \*(T<sg_host_info\*(T> buffer received from
\*(T<\fBsg_get_host_info_r\fR\*(T>() must be freed using
\*(T<\fBsg_free_host_info\fR\*(T>() when not needed any more. The
caller is responsible for doing it.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
The structure returned is of type
\*(T<sg_host_info\*(T>.
.PP
.nf
\*(T<
typedef enum {
        sg_unknown_configuration = 0,
        sg_physical_host,
        sg_virtual_machine,
        sg_paravirtual_machine,
        sg_hardware_virtualized
} sg_host_state;
    \*(T>
.fi
.PP
.nf
\*(T<
typedef struct{
        char *os_name;
        char *os_release;
        char *os_version;
        char *platform;
        char *hostname;
        unsigned bitwidth;
        sg_host_state host_state;
        unsigned ncpus;
        unsigned maxcpus;
        time_t uptime;
        time_t systime;
}sg_host_info;
    \*(T>
.fi
.TP 
\*(T<os_name\*(T>
The operating system name.
(eg. SunOS or Linux)
.TP 
\*(T<os_release\*(T>
The operating system release.
(eg. 5.8 or 5.9 or Solaris)
.TP 
\*(T<os_version\*(T>
The version level of the OS.
.TP 
\*(T<platform\*(T>
The hardware platform (architecture) the OS runs on.
.TP 
\*(T<hostname\*(T>
The name of the machine.
.TP 
\*(T<uptime\*(T>
The uptime of the machine in seconds.
.TP 
\*(T<systime\*(T>
The timestamp when the above stats where collected in seconds
since epoch
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBstatgrab\fR(3)
.SH WEBSITE
\(lahttp://www.i-scream.org/libstatgrab/\(ra
